#summary Advanced Diagnostic Context Logging in Connector Manager v2.0.
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

Google Enterprise Connector Manager version 2.0 provides enhanced 
logging capabilities that makes it easier to troubleshoot installations
employing multiple Connector Instances.  The log records now contain
additional context-specific information, most notably the name of the
connector instance generating the message.

= Details =

The new logging mechanism implements the Nested Diagnostic Context (NDC) 
and Mapped Diagnostic Context (MDC) patterns as described by Neil Harrison 
in the article "Patterns for Logging Diagnostic Messages" in the book 
"[http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=273448 Pattern Languages of Program Design 3]".  
The 
[http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-manager/source/browse/trunk/projects/connector-manager/source/java/com/google/enterprise/connector/logging/MDC.java MDC]
and 
[http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-manager/source/browse/trunk/projects/connector-manager/source/java/com/google/enterprise/connector/logging/NDC.java NDC] 
interface closely resembles those provided by the Apache Log4j implementation,
primarily as an aid for the large number of developers and administrators 
familiar with log4j.

Whereas earlier versions of the Connector Manager relied strictly on 
Java's native logging, the new enhanced diagnostic context logging 
feature requires the configuration of a custom log [http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/util/logging/Formatter.html Formatter].
Two new log Formatters are provided: 
[http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-manager/source/browse/trunk/projects/connector-manager/source/java/com/google/enterprise/connector/logging/SimpleFormatter.java SimpleFormatter] 
and 
[http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-manager/source/browse/trunk/projects/connector-manager/source/java/com/google/enterprise/connector/logging/XmlFormatter.java XmlFormatter].

By default, these Google Connector Log Formatters generate output similar 
to the java.util.logging Formatters of the same name, with the discrete
addition of the diagnostic context.  However, the output of each may
be modified via a format property in the Connector Manager's 
`logging.properties` file.

The default message layout for the `SimpleFormatter` includes the 
diagnostic context in square brackets after the message timestamp.
The default message layout for the `XmlFormatter` adds an `<NDC>`
XML element that contains the diagnostic context.


== Changing the Format of the Generated Log Messages ==

The Google Connectors Installer sets up the `!SimpleFormatter` with 
its default log message layout.  This layout is similar to the 
`java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter` produced by previous versions of the 
Google Enterprise Connector deployments.

A Connector administrator may select the desired log `Formatter` and modify
the layout of the generated messages by setting certain properties in the
`$CATALINA_HOME/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/classes/logging.properties`
file.


== Configuring the SimpleFormatter ==

The Google Connector Logging SimpleFormatter is the log formatter set up
by the Google Connector Installer.

To enable the SimpleFormatter, set the `FileHandler` property in `logging.properties`
as follows:<br>
`java.util.logging.FileHandler.formatter=com.google.enterprise.connector.logging.SimpleFormatter`

By default, the `SimpleFormatter` generates output that resembles that
of `java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter`.  The NDC context is inserted
just after the timestamp on the first line of the log message.

The output of the `SimpleFormatter` can be tailored using a layout pattern
string specified as the `format` property value.  As an aid to administrators,
the syntax of the layout pattern string is similar to the Log4j PatternLayout.
However, since this logger is based upon java.util.logging.LogRecord, not all
of Log4j's conversion patterns are supported.  The layout pattern syntax 
is described in the 
[http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-manager/source/browse/trunk/projects/connector-manager/source/java/com/google/enterprise/connector/logging/LayoutPattern.java com.google.enterprise.connector.logging.LayoutPattern]
javadoc.

For example, the default `SimpleFormatter` output uses the layout pattern:<br>
`com.google.enterprise.connector.logging.SimpleFormatter.format=%d{MMM dd, yyyy h:mm:ss a} [%x] %C %M%n%p: %m%n`

For a condensed, the 1-line layout, suitable for grepping, try:<br>
`com.google.enterprise.connector.logging.SimpleFormatter.format=%d [%x] %p: %C{3}.%M(): %m%n`


== Configuring the XmlFormatter ==

To enable the `XmlFormatter`, set the `FileHandler` property in `logging.properties`
as follows:
`java.util.logging.FileHandler.formatter=com.google.enterprise.connector.logging.XmlFormatter`

The `XmlFormatter` has limited configuration options, supporting only two
different output formats.  The default XmlFormatter output resembles the
output of `java.util.logging.XMLFormatter`, with the addition of an `<NDC>`
element containing the NDC diagnostic context.

Unfortunately, the additional `<NDC>` XML element in the default format is 
not recognized by the popular 
[http://logging.apache.org/chainsaw/index.html Apache Chainsaw log viewer].  
The Connector Logging XmlFormatter can be configured to produce output 
resembling that of the Apache Log4j logger, which is viewable in Chainsaw.

To enable the default XML format, set the `format` property to `default`:
`com.google.enterprise.connector.logging.XmlFormatter.format=default`

To enable Log4j-compatible XML format, set the `format` property to `log4j`
or `chainsaw`:
`com.google.enterprise.connector.logging.XmlFormatter.format=log4j`

Note: A bug in the `XmlFormatter` that shipped with Connector Manager v2.0.0
requires a `format` property to be specified, even if that property value 
is `default`.  The `format` property must be specified, and it must not be
empty.


== Configuring the Tomcat Server to Enable Connector Diagnostic Logging ==

The Google Connectors Installer will automatically configure use of 
the new Google Connector SimpleFormatter with its default layout.
However, manual Connector installations will require small changes 
to the Tomcat configuration to enable this feature.

You must add the new `connector-logging.jar` file to the system classpath that 
Tomcat uses at startup.  Tomcat ignores the `CLASSPATH` environment variable and 
builds a custom classpath using the `$CATALINA_HOME/bin/setclasspath.sh` or
`$CATALINA_HOME/bin/setclasspath.bat` scripts.  Modify these scripts, adding
`connector-logging.jar` to the `CLASSPATH` constructed: For instance:
`CLASSPATH="$CLASSPATH":"$BASEDIR"/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/lib/connector-logging.jar`
If configuring the Connector as a Microsoft Windows service, you must also
add `connector-logging.jar` to the `PR_CLASSPATH` constructed in `service.bat`
before installing the service.