#summary Modifying a Connector's `connectorInstance.xml` Configuration

== Introduction ==

A Connector's `connectorInstance.xml` configuration file contains
advanced implementation-specific configuration, as well
as Spring Framework bean configuration for a Connector
deployment.

Currently, a Connector's `connectorInstance.xml` configuration file 
is not directly modifiable using the Search Appliance Admin Console.

When a connector's configuration is stored in files within the web
application filesystem, manual modifications to these files could
easily be done using any plain text editor.

However, when a connector's configuration is stored in a JDBC
database, modifying that configuration manually becomes non-trivial.

This page discusses the steps needed to export a connector's
configuration from the database, manually edit it, then re-import
the modified configuration into the database.

Doing so requires direct access to the computer hosting a
Google Connector Manager for the deployed Connector, with
sufficient rights to modify files in the Connector Manager
Tomcat web application directory.

== Modifying a Connector's `connectorInstance.xml` Configuration ==

  # Disable traversal for that connector.   In the GSA Amin UI, go to 
*Connector Administration > Connectors*, click the *Edit* link
for the desired connector, check the *Disable Traversal*  check box,
then click the *Save Configuration* button.<br><br>

  # On the computer that contains the connector deployment, launch
a command shell, then change directory to the `Scripts` directory 
within the connector deployment.<br>`$ cd MyGoogleConnector/Scripts`<br>