#summary Instructions for manually upgrading to Connector Manager version 3.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Phase-Support

== Introduction ==

Connector Manager version 3 offers many new features and technologies to connectors, and as such, upgrading to newer versions of some connectors will also require upgrading to the new version of Connector Manager.

This document provides instructions for manually upgrading Connector Manager version 2 installations to Connector Manager version 3.  This process is only slightly more involved than  [UpdatePatchRelease manually applying a minor update or patch release.]

Earlier versions of some connectors may have installed third party components that are incompatible with Connector Manager version 3.  These *must* be removed before upgrading to Connector Manager version 3.  In most cases, Connector Manager version 3 will provide newer versions of these components, but the older versions must be removed first.

== Prerequisites  ==

Before applying an update you should have the following available to you.
  * Access to the computer running the Connector Manager and its Tomcat application server.  You will need sufficient access rights to start and stop Tomcat and modify files in its deployment directory.
  * A binary distribution of a Connector Manager patch release, available on the [http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-manager/downloads/list Downloads page].
  * Familiarity with the command line environment of the deployment computer (cmd.exe on Windows or a shell environment on Unix/Linux).

*Note:* These instructions use environment variable syntax as an allusion. These environment variables may not exist in your environment.  You may choose to define the appropriately, or you must substitute the actual paths when entering the commands.

== Upgrading a Connector Manager deployed on Windows ==

*Note:* `%CATALINA_HOME%` refers to the Apache Tomcat deployment directory for your Connector installation.  If you installed the Connector using the Google Connector Installer (GCI), then `%CATALINA_HOME%` will be the `Tomcat` directory inside the Connector Installation (for instance: `C:\GoogleConnectors\myConnector\Tomcat`).

You will need to stop and restart the Tomcat web application server during the upgrade.  The instructions here assume that Tomcat is running as a *Windows Service*.  The instructions for doing so differ if Tomcat is running as a console application.  You would typically stop and start the service via the `Windows->Settings->Control Panel->Administrative Tools->Services` control panel.

  # Download the _Google Connector Manager Binary Distribution_ from the [http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-manager/downloads/list Downloads page], and unzip it.  Note the location of the `connector-manager.war` file that was extracted from the binary distribution.  These notes will use `%WAR_DIR%` to refer to the directory that contains the `connector-manager.war` file.
  # Shutdown the Tomcat web application server, either via the Services control panel, by using the `Stop_*_Connector_Console` command in the Connector installation directory, or by using Tomcat's `shutdown` or  `stopService` command. 
{{{
cd %CATALINA_HOME%\bin
stopService.bat
}}}
  # Make a backup copy of the Connector Manager configuration properties file %CATALINA_HOME%\webapps\connector-manager\WEB-INF\applicationContext.properties.
{{{
cd %CATALINA_HOME%\webapps\connector-manager\WEB-INF
copy applicationContext.properties applicationContext.properties.backup
}}}
  # Remove incompatible third party JAR files. *WARNING:* Some versions of the Google Connector Installer mark the installed connector JAR files as Read-Only.  Write permission for these files must be restored before deploying the patch. 
{{{
cd %CATALINA_HOME%\webapps\connector-manager
attrib -r WEB-INF\lib\*.jar
del google-collect*.jar google-guava*.jar mime-util-2*.jar slf4j*.jar
}}}
  # Deploy the new `connector-manager.war` over the old installation.  This is done by using the Java `jar` command to unpack the `war` file directly into the Tomcat deployment. 
{{{
cd %CATALINA_HOME%\webapps\connector-manager
jar xvf %WAR_DIR%\connector-manager.war
}}}
  # Restore the Connector Manager configuration properties file that was backed up earlier.
{{{
cd %CATALINA_HOME%\webapps\connector-manager\WEB-INF
copy applicationContext.properties.backup applicationContext.properties
}}}
  # Add a new `feed.contenturl.prefix` property to the  Connector Manager configuration properties file.  Substitute the `host` and `port` portions of the URL with the actual hostname or IP address and port number for the Tomcat web application server. 
{{{
cd %CATALINA_HOME%\webapps\connector-manager\WEB-INF
echo feed.contenturl.prefix=http://host:port/connector-manager/getDocumentContent >> applicationContext.properties
}}}
  # Restart the Tomcat web application server, either via the Services control panel, by using the `Start_*_Connector_Console` command in the Connector installation directory, or by using Tomcat's `startup` command or `startService` command.
{{{
cd %CATALINA_HOME%\bin
startService.bat
}}}

== Updating a Connector Manager deployed on Unix or Linux ==

*Note:* `${CATALINA_HOME}` refers to the Apache Tomcat deployment directory for your Connector installation.  If you installed the Connector using the Google Connector Installer (GCI), then `${CATALINA_HOME}` will be the 
`Tomcat` directory inside the Connector Installation (for instance: `~/GoogleConnectors/myConnector/Tomcat`).

The syntax used here is Bash shell syntax.  You may need to adjust the syntax appropriately if you are using a different command shell.

  # Download the _Google Connector Manager Binary Distribution_ from the [http://code.google.com/p/google-enterprise-connector-manager/downloads/list Downloads page], and unzip it.  Note the location of the `connector-manager.war` file that was extracted from the binary distribution.  These notes will use `${WAR_DIR}` to refer to the directory that contains the `connector-manager.war` file. GNU tar was used to generate the archive, and should also be used to extract its contents.
{{{
wget http://google-enterprise-connector-manager.googlecode.com/files/connector-manager-3.0.0.tar.gz
tar xzf connector-manager-3.0.0.tar.gz
WAR_DIR=`pwd`/connector-manager-3.0.0
}}}
  # Shutdown the Tomcat web application server either by using the `Stop_*_Connector_Console` command in the Connector installation directory, or by using Tomcat's `shutdown` command.
{{{
cd ${CATALINA_HOME}/bin
./shutdown.sh
}}}
  # Make a backup copy of the Connector Manager configuration properties file ${CATALINA_HOME}/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF/applicationContext.properties.
{{{
cd ${CATALINA_HOME}/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF
cp applicationContext.properties applicationContext.properties.backup
}}}
  # Remove incompatible third party JAR files. *WARNING:* Some versions of the Google Connector Installer mark the installed connector JAR files as Read-Only.  Write permission for these files must be restored before deploying the patch. 
{{{
cd ${CATALINA_HOME}/webapps/connector-manager
chmod +w WEB-INF/lib/*.jar
rm google-collect*.jar google-guava*.jar mime-util-2*.jar slf4j*.jar
}}}
  # Deploy the new `connector-manager.war` over the old installation.  This is done by using the Java `jar` command to unpack the `war` file directly into the Tomcat deployment.
{{{
cd ${CATALINA_HOME}/webapps/connector-manager
jar xvf ${WAR_DIR}/connector-manager.war
}}}
  # Restore the Connector Manager configuration properties file that was backed up earlier.
{{{
cd ${CATALINA_HOME}/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF
cp applicationContext.properties.backup applicationContext.properties
}}}
  # Add a new `feed.contenturl.prefix` property to the  Connector Manager configuration properties file.  Substitute the `host` and `port` portions of the URL with the actual hostname or IP address and port number for the Tomcat web application server. 
{{{
cd ${CATALINA_HOME}/webapps/connector-manager/WEB-INF
echo 'feed.contenturl.prefix=http://host:port/connector-manager/getDocumentContent' >> applicationContext.properties
}}}
  # Restart the Tomcat web application server, either by using the `Start_*_Connector_Console` command in the Connector installation directory, or by using Tomcat's `startup` command.
{{{
cd ${CATALINA_HOME}/bin
./startup.sh 
}}}